all right guys today I just want to talk
about one of my favorite ps2 titles and
that's guitar oh man it was also later
ported to the PSP as guitar man lives
honestly it doesn't matter which version
you get but if you're a fan of quirky
games in general or the music rhythm
kind of games you definitely got check
this one out so I first learned about
guitar man back when I was getting my
official PlayStation magazines and one
of them came with a demo for this game
so popped it in tried it out never heard
of this game before and never played it
or anything and I was actually really
surprised with it because despite being
a pretty simple game in its core you
know for the majority of the game might
say like eighty percent of the game
eighty-five percent you're just pressing
one button and moving your joystick to
the button combinations and every now
and then their sequences we have to
press you know all four face buttons and
different combinations but for the most
part is just this one button music
rhythm game but what really drew me in
was in style I mean I had never seen a
game look like this before it was just
really wacky you know you can definitely
tell that this is the type of game that
just barely made it to the States you
know outside of Japan so I figured I
would try and track this game down and I
ventured out to the game stops
everything like that and I was looking
around and yeah vitara man was at the
time extremely extremely rare and hard
to find it had gone out of print fairly
early and you know not a lot of copies
were out there anyway so it was nearly
impossible to find a game stops and the
only place you could really get it was
on ebay but the game was going for near
or over a hundred dollars for a used
copy and why was that well because the
game was just so damn good and so many
people wanted to play it but it was so
hard to get and it's not like it's a
really long game there's only ten levels
you can actually beat this game in under
an hour and of course after you beat it
you know stuff on box like master mode
which is harder difficulty but for the
most part this is a fairly short game so
people were basing their purchase off of
just how much fun it is and I got to
stress that this game despite how simple
it may look or you know most people
write it off as being too
looking for them you know the guitar
hero and rockband crowds trust me if
you're a fan of music rhythm games you
really gotta give guitar oh man a shot I
mean it is pretty challenging too
despite what you may you know think I
watching the video you might look overly
simple with just you don't press the one
button and just moving the joystick
around in the direction that you're
supposed to be pointing it but let me
just cut to the chase here I ended up
breaking down and buying my copy it
costs me $100 use of this and trust me I
didn't regret any of it it was so worth
it and the good news is the game was
reprinted no one ever expected that it's
reprinted you can get it in game stops
used now or if you on ebay you know you
can get it for like fifteen twenty
dollars even under that if you're lucky
but it's a lot easier to get now it was
reprinted just like Reds was on the ps2
two of the rarest ps2 titles reason no
one ever really saw it coming but it's
still sue is still worth it four hundred
dollars at the time okay so let me just
explain briefly how the game works in
terms of its gameplay now you actually
play it and why it is quite unique from
other news for the beams now if you look
at the center of the screen there's the
blue dot and from around all directions
of the screen you'll see like these
squiggly lines come and when the circle
of that squiggly line meets that blue
dot you have to press any button on the
controller so you can press square
circle y X whatever whatever one you
want to press once you have that
press/jeff to hold it and then use your
joystick to actually move the light it
looks like kind of like a flashlight on
the screen you have to move that in the
direction that the squiggly line is
going so instead just mash the buttons
in time for aligning it up with the
circles you're at the same time pointing
in the direction that the line is going
so it gets pretty challenging at times I
mean when that's when it starts speeding
up and you have to you know constantly
change the direction and press the
buttons they can get really challenging
and then when they start mixing in the
mode where you have to defend which is
when the four face buttons will come
forward to the center of the screen and
marrying speeds you have to press them
at the same time now how this ties into
the life bars at the top basically every
level is sort of like a battle so
usually at the beginning of a level
it'll
charge which you know depending upon how
many notes that you hit how well you do
you'll charge your life bar and then
after it's charged up after the round of
charging you'll do battle which is when
you get a chance to do damage them
depending upon how well you do it your
combos and then the enemy has turned to
attack and what you have to defend and
that's when the face button combinations
come in and that's when you're defending
so in essence you can actually just
totally ignore the light bars or just
try and do your combos but it kind of
adds this little battle element to the
game which makes it a little bit more
fun now the game wouldn't be good would
have good music and luckily this game
has really good so it's very very now
there are only ten tracks because it
like I said there's only ten levels but
it's very varied I mean they have
everything from acoustic the Japanese
pop techno they have jazz they have
reggae they have power metal and classic
rock they have everything in here and it
never really gets repetitive the man how
many times you have to try with a little
it's very entertaining especially with
the little story elements that the times
the background and the whole
presentation of it is done really well
the cutscenes for the most part are
really entertaining and you know the
story is look pretty engaging you're
basically yes trying to save the world
from evil what is pretty comical and
enjoyable for the most part so i would
highly recommend guitar oh man
especially because now i check gamestop
the website and you can get it used for
twenty dollars and the PSP version is
actually used for only 999 so definitely
check out your local gamestop see if
they have the ps2 and PSP version
depended upon you know just a ver and if
you want the portable version or the ps2
version and definitely give this game a
look it was very overlooked a game that
definitely deserves more attention
hopefully in the future we'll see a
guitar man 2 i'm not exactly the bill
huh
patty back